---
layout: post
title: Home page
categories:
  - Design
  - Content
description: How we defined and designed the new W3C website homepage
author: Ian Axton, Simon Jones
date: 2021-04-16
thumbnail: /assets/images/img-content-management.png
thumbnail_alt: "A person standing on a giant piece of paper with an illustration of part of a web page. The person has a rake, and is using it to rake the content to make it look neater."

---

The final big piece of design and content work we completed was the home page. We often leave this to the last point in the content work, when the site purpose and IA is fully defined. Then we can feature the most important content for people visiting the W3C on the site home page. 

(View the home page design)[/designs/homepage.md] and read about the intention of each section below. 

## Home page purpose

We defined the purpose of the home page as needing to: 

* Communicate the vision and purpose of W3C
* Help new users make sense of W3C
* Highlight key areas to direct new users towards
* Promote W3C to business 
* Highlight newsworthy content
* Establish W3C brand identity



## Proposed content

The following content was chosen to meet the page purpose:

### Introduction

* Purpose: short vision/purpose statement about W3C, what it does & why, cover principles of web for all.
* Links to key pages



### Working with industry

* Purpose: Promote the fact W3C works with business/industry, help business see how they can work with W3C. 
* Imagery: selection of random member logos.
* Links to: Business ecosystem landing pages, a small number of example business ecosystems (random three so W3C do not favour specific ones)



### Get involved

* Purpose: Tell people how you can get involved, especially for individuals. Where can you contribute to W3C, how can you learn?
* Links to: Get involved landing page, Groups landing, Donate.



### Standards

* Purpose: talk about open web platform, summarise what standards W3C work on.
* Links to: Standard landing page, developer resources.



### News

* Purpose: Highlight newsworthy content 
* Content: Show a combined list of news / blog posts / in the media (4 max).



## What we didn't include

There are a few areas on the existing homepage which are not included on the new homepage because they either don't meet the page purpose or can be easily accessed by the main navigation. The areas are:

* Jobs (should be linked via About section)
* News RSS feeds (accessible via news/blog listing pages)
* Web standards video (should be on, or linked to, from the Standards landing page)
* Talks (accessible via navigation)
* Events (accessible via navigation)
